Inject data documentation revised (#41)
plantanapp/documentation: docs/Actions/inject-data.md

---
id: inject-data
title: Inject Data
sidebar_label: Inject Data
---

> Audience: [`Business Users`](/docs/audience#business-users)<br/>
> Skill Prerequisites: `None`

> An action that lets you add data as tokens to the current execution context. Inject data can be used to load data that other actions other actions down the stack need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An action that lets you create new tokens into the current execution context. The value of each token is usually a computation of other tokens from the context. Once created, the new tokens can be accessed by any subsequent action.
```

## `Typical Use Cases`

- Generate a new token
- Concatenate 2 tokens
- Overwrite a token
- Initialize variables with empty strings

## `Don't use it to`

> - Execute a Variables token - use [Apply Tokens](/docs/Actions/apply-tokens.md) or [Execute Tokens](/docs/Actions/execute-tokens.md) actions instead

Reviewer: What is a "variable token"?

Reviewer: I suggest something like "Execute tokens that don't return any output" if that's the idea. If not, please make it clearer.

Author: You're right, it can be used in this circumstance. I deleted it.

> - Apply tokens inside a text from different sources - use [Apply Tokens](/docs/Actions/apply-tokens.md) or [Execute Tokens](/docs/Actions/execute-tokens.md) actions instead

Reviewer: I don't understand this one as well.

Author: I deleted it.

> - Create a token that is used in another execution context - store the data in a [hidden field](/docs/Actions/hidden-field.md), cookies or server session instead

Reviewer: I would suggest mentioning also storing data in Entities or User Profile.

Author: Why? I don't see it as a valid case, or I don't understand what you are referring to

## `Related Actions`

| Action Name | Description|
|-------------|------------|

> | [Run SQL Query](/docs/Actions/run-sql-query.md) | Executes an SQL statement and captures the output, so that it can be used in the form using Inject Data.|

Reviewer: Why do we mention "form" here? Is it specific to a form?
I still don't see a very strong relationship between these 2 actions. Perhaps if you reprhase it to say something like creating new tokens derived from data returned by the SQL query.

What about Execute Actions on Entity List? I remember we sometimes use inject data to create a token that gets appended with some text by each iteration.

Author: The last suggestion is a "hack" and we suggest using MyTokens instead, usually.

## `Input Parameter Reference`

| Parameter     | Description                           | Supports Variables |
|---------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------|
| Name/Value | The first parameter refers to the name of the new token that will be created. The second one refers to the value assigned. The action uses a key-value (name-value) concept. | Yes |

## `Output Parameters Reference`

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|

> | Name | The Name parameter is stored as a token for further use anywhere in the form. |

Reviewer: I don't see an Output Parameter named "Name" in the action. If you refer to the Name/Value collection, I suggest that we move the entire parameter under Output Parameters section and we don't cover it in Input at all.

Author: I saw on Radu's commit another structure(that seemed good), so i used it here. I propose we use the same structure everywhere we have a key-value pair.

## `Examples`

> ### `1. Inject data using Run SQL Query`

Reviewer: I don't see the value of this example. Why wouldn't I use Inject_Username directly in the SQL action and avoid having the Inject data? Tell me about real-life examples that would help me.

Author: Modified it to be a real-life example.

​

> The action below selects first username from users database using Run SQL Query and sends it into the form. <br></br>[Import it](/docs/Actions/import-actions.md) into your application to see it in action.

Reviewer: Don't mention "form". This action works in form, grid, API endpoint, scheduler, infobox and workflows.

Author: Done it.

                    "ShowErrors": false
                },
                "ActionType": "RunSql",
                "$_isOpen": false,
                "$_isLoaded": true,
                "$_isFocus": true,
                "Definition": {
                    "IsClientAction": false,
                    "Settings": {
                        "Group": "Data"
                    }
                }
            },
            {
                "Id": -1,
                "$_uid": "action15911731358819956",
                "Parameters": {
                    "Data": [
                        {
                            "value": "[SQL_Username]",
                            "name": "Inject_Username"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                "ActionType": "InjectData",
                "$_isOpen": false,
                "$_isLoaded": true,
                "$_isFocus": true,
                "Definition": {
                    "IsClientAction": false,
                    "Settings": {
                        "Group": "Context"
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### `2. Generate a new token`

​

> The action below generates a new token named "ClientId" with the assigned value "ID15367" that can be used in the form. <br></br> [Import it](/docs/Actions/import-actions.md) into your application to see it in action.

Reviewer: Will this example work only inside the form?
Also, I'm missing the value. When would I need to do that?
Perhaps, a better example for basic usage would be to inject a token that sets something to Debug=true. Then, add another action, such as Debug Logging, that uses the debug token in a condition.

Author: Ok, I updated the example.

                    "ShowErrors": false
                },
                "ActionType": "RunSql",
                "$_isOpen": false,
                "$_isLoaded": true,
                "$_isFocus": true,
                "Definition": {
                    "IsClientAction": false,
                    "Settings": {
                        "Group": "Data"
                    }
                }
            },
            {
                "Id": -1,
                "$_uid": "action15911732046533516",
                "Parameters": {
                    "Data": [
                        {
                            "value": "[FirstName] [LastName]",
                            "name": "FullName"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                "ActionType": "InjectData",
                "$_isOpen": false,
                "$_isLoaded": true,
                "$_isFocus": true,
                "Definition": {
                    "IsClientAction": false,
                    "Settings": {
                        "Group": "Context"
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### `4. Overwrite a token`

​

> The action below creates a token with initial value "1" and overwrites it. The injected token will have value "2", which is the new one. <br></br> [Import it](/docs/Actions/import-actions.md) into your application to see it in action.

Reviewer: Let's find a real-life example when we'd do this.

Author: Found one and added it
